Process Scheduling

Author: Wasey


What this does:
  I built a scheduling library that works with a simulator to schedule
  CPU jobs. The simulator reads jobs from a CSV file and my library
  decides which job gets the CPU next depending on the algorithm.

Supported algorithms:
  FCFS  - First Come First Served (simple queue, no preemption)
  SJF   - Shortest Job First (picks the shortest job, no preemption)
  PSJF  - Preemptive SJF (can kick out a running job if a shorter one arrives)
  PRI   - Priority based (lower number = higher priority, no preemption)
  PPRI  - Preemptive Priority (same as PRI but can preempt)
  RR    - Round Robin (each job gets a fixed time slice then rotates)

How to build:
  make clean
  make

How to run:
  ./simulator <scheme> <input_file>

  Examples:
    ./simulator fcfs examples/proc1.csv
    ./simulator sjf  examples/proc2.csv
    ./simulator rr2  examples/proc1.csv     <- round robin with quantum 2
    ./simulator rr4  examples/proc2.csv     <- round robin with quantum 4

Files:
  simulator.c                  - the event simulator (given to us, didn't change it)
  libscheduler/libscheduler.h  - header file with function prototypes
  libscheduler/libscheduler.c  - where all my scheduling code lives
  examples/                    - test inputs and expected outputs
  Makefile                     - compiles everything
  README                       - this file

How it works:
  I used a linked list for the ready queue. The list stays sorted based
  on whatever algorithm we're using. When a new job comes in, it gets
  inserted in the right spot. For non-preemptive algorithms (FCFS, SJF,
  PRI), the running job always stays at the front. For preemptive ones
  (PSJF, PPRI), a new job can take over if it has a shorter remaining
  time or higher priority.

  Round Robin is a bit different - new jobs go to the back, and when
  the time quantum runs out the current job moves to the end of the line.

  Ties are broken by arrival time (whoever showed up first goes first).

  I also had to be careful with response time - if a job gets picked to
  run but then immediately gets preempted before it actually executes,
  that shouldn't count as its first run time.
